It was November. Although it was not 
late, the sky was dark when I turned 
Laundress Passage. Father had finished 
the day, switched off the shop lights 
closed the shutters; but so I would not 
home to darkness he had left on the 
over the stairs to the flat. Through 
glass in the door it cast a foolscap 
of paleness onto the wet pavement, and 
was while I was standing in that 
about to turn my key in the door, that 
first saw the letter. Another white 
it was on the fifth step from the 
where I couldn't miss it. I closed the 
and put the shop key in its usual place 
Bailey's Advanced Principles of 
Poor Bailey. No one has wanted his fat 
book for thirty years. Sometimes I 
what he makes of his role as guardian 
the bookshop keys. I don't suppose it's 
destiny he had in mind for the 
that he spent two decades writing. A 
For me. That was something of an event. 
crisp-cornered envelope, puffed up with 
thickly folded contents, was addressed 
a hand that must have given the postman 
certain amount of trouble. Although the 
of the writing was old-fashioned, with 
heavily embellished capitals and curly 
my first impression was that it had 
written by a child. The letters seemed 
Their uneven strokes either faded into 
or were heavily etched into the paper. 
was no sense of flow in the letters 
spelled out my name. Each had been 
separately -- M A R G A R E T L E A -- 
a new and daunting enterprise. But I 
no children. That is when I thought, It 
the hand of an invalid. It gave me a 
feeling. Yesterday or the day before, 
I had been going about my business, 
and in private, some unknown person -- 
stranger -- had gone to the trouble of 
my name onto this envelope. Who was it 
had had his mind's eye on me while I 
suspected a thing? Still in my coat and 
I sank onto the stair to read the 
(I never read without making sure I am 
a secure position. I have been like 
ever since the age of seven when, 
on a high wall and reading The Water 
I was so seduced by the descriptions of 
life that I unconsciously relaxed my 
Instead of being held buoyant by the 
that so vividly surrounded me in my 
I plummeted to the ground and knocked 
out. I can still feel the scar under my 
now. Reading can be dangerous.) I 
the letter and pulled out a sheaf of 
a dozen pages, all written in the same 
script. Thanks to my work, I am 
in the reading of difficult 
There is no great secret to it. 
and practice are all that is required. 
and the willingness to cultivate an 
eye. When you read a manuscript that 
been damaged by water, fire, light or 
the passing of the years, your eye 
to study not just the shape of the 
but other marks of production. The 
of the pen. The pressure of the hand on 
page. Breaks and releases in the flow. 
must relax. Think of nothing. Until you 
into a dream where you are at once a 
flying over vellum and the vellum 
with the touch of ink tickling your 
Then you can read it. The intention of 
writer, his thoughts, his hesitations, 
longings and his meaning. You can read 
clearly as if you were the very 
illuminating the page as the pen speeds 
it. Not that this letter was anything 
as challenging as some. It began with a 
"Miss Lea"; thereafter the hieroglyphs 
themselves quickly into characters, 
words, then sentences. 